Hello. I will now show you
how you can initialize
a matrix that can
tell you the parts
of speech tag of every word.
This matrix will tell
you the probability that
every word belongs to a
certain parts of speech tag.
Let me show you how
you can do this.
As you just saw, the
initialization step
is one of three
steps to populate
the auxiliary matrices C
and D. In the
initialization step,
the first column of each of
our matrices C and
D is populated.
The first column of C represents
probability of the
transitions from the start
states Pi in the graph to
the first tag t_i and word w_1,
meaning we're trying to go
from tag 1 to the word w_1.
This is shown here
for a model with
three hidden states for
the sake of clarity.
The first column entries, c_1,1,
are the products of the
transition probabilities of
the initial states and
their respective
emission probabilities.
As your initial probabilities
are contained in
the first row of the
transition matrix A,
this is the same as a_1,
I times the corresponding
emission probability b.
The C index function
simply returns
the column index and
the matrix b for the
given word, here,
w_1 in the D matrix,
you store the labels
that represent
the different states
you're traversing when
finding the most likely
sequence of parts of
speech tags for the
given sequence of words,
w_1, all the way to w_k.
In the first column, you
simply set all entries to
zero as there are
no preceding parts of speech
tags we have traversed.
That's it for step 1.
You now know how to
initialize your matrices.
In the next video,
you're going to learn how to
continue populating
your matrices.
You can use that to decode
the parts of speech of
a certain sentence.
You'll learn about the
Viterbi algorithm,
which you can use
for part-of-speech
tagging and also
speech recognition.